@node ax_have_opengl
@unnumberedsec ax_have_opengl

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_HAVE_OPENGL
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Search for OpenGL. We search first for Mesa (a GPL'ed version of Mesa)
before a vendor's version of OpenGL, unless we were specifically asked
not to with `--with-Mesa=no' or `--without-Mesa'.

The four "standard" OpenGL libraries are searched for: "-lGL", "-lGLU",
"-lGLX" (or "-lMesaGL", "-lMesaGLU" as the case may be) and "-lglut".

All of the libraries that are found (since "-lglut" or "-lGLX" might be
missing) are added to the shell output variable "GL_LIBS", along with
any other libraries that are necessary to successfully link an OpenGL
application (e.g. the X11 libraries). Care has been taken to make sure
that all of the libraries in "GL_LIBS" are listed in the proper order.

Additionally, the shell output variable "GL_CFLAGS" is set to any flags
(e.g. "-I" flags) that are necessary to successfully compile an OpenGL
application.

The following shell variable (which are not output variables) are also
set to either "yes" or "no" (depending on which libraries were found) to
help you determine exactly what was found.

@smallexample
  have_GL
  have_GLU
  have_GLX
  have_glut
@end smallexample

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_have_opengl.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_have_opengl.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_have_opengl.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Matthew D. Langston} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2008 Ahmet Inan @email{auto@@ainan.org}} @* @w{Copyright @copyright{} 2013 Bastien Roucaries <roucaries.bastien+autoconf@@gmail.com}

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

As a special exception, the respective Autoconf Macro's copyright owner
gives unlimited permission to copy, distribute and modify the configure
scripts that are the output of Autoconf when processing the Macro. You
need not follow the terms of the GNU General Public License when using
or distributing such scripts, even though portions of the text of the
Macro appear in them. The GNU General Public License (GPL) does govern
all other use of the material that constitutes the Autoconf Macro.

This special exception to the GPL applies to versions of the Autoconf
Macro released by the Autoconf Archive. When you make and distribute a
modified version of the Autoconf Macro, you may extend this special
exception to the GPL to apply to your modified version as well.
