@node ax_valgrind_check
@unnumberedsec ax_valgrind_check

@majorheading Synopsis

@smallexample
AX_VALGRIND_CHECK()
@end smallexample

@majorheading Description

Checks whether Valgrind is present and, if so, allows running `make
check` under a variety of Valgrind tools to check for memory and
threading errors.

Defines VALGRIND_CHECK_RULES which should be substituted in your
Makefile; and $enable_valgrind which can be used in subsequent configure
output. VALGRIND_ENABLED is defined and substituted, and corresponds to
the value of the --enable-valgrind option, which defaults to being
enabled if Valgrind is installed and disabled otherwise.

If unit tests are written using a shell script and automake's
LOG_COMPILER system, the $(VALGRIND) variable can be used within the
shell scripts to enable Valgrind, as described here:

@smallexample
  https://www.gnu.org/software/gnulib/manual/html_node/Running-self_002dtests-under-valgrind.html
@end smallexample

Usage example:

configure.ac:

@smallexample
  AX_VALGRIND_CHECK
@end smallexample

Makefile.am:

@smallexample
  @@VALGRIND_CHECK_RULES@@
  VALGRIND_SUPPRESSIONS_FILES = my-project.supp
  EXTRA_DIST = my-project.supp
@end smallexample

This results in a "check-valgrind" rule being added to any Makefile.am
which includes "@@VALGRIND_CHECK_RULES@@" (assuming the module has been
configured with --enable-valgrind). Running `make check-valgrind` in
that directory will run the module's test suite (`make check`) once for
each of the available Valgrind tools (out of memcheck, helgrind, drd and
sgcheck), and will output results to test-suite-$toolname.log for each.
The target will succeed if there are zero errors and fail otherwise.

Alternatively, a "check-valgrind-$TOOL" rule will be added, for $TOOL in
memcheck, helgrind, drd and sgcheck. These are useful because often only
some of those tools can be ran cleanly on a codebase.

The macro supports running with and without libtool.

@majorheading Source Code

Download the
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=blob_plain;f=m4/ax_valgrind_check.m4,latest
version of @file{ax_valgrind_check.m4}} or browse
@uref{http://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/?p=autoconf-archive.git;a=history;f=m4/ax_valgrind_check.m4,the
macro's revision history}.

@majorheading License

@w{Copyright @copyright{} 2014, 2015, 2016 Philip Withnall @email{philip.withnall@@collabora.co.uk}}

Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
warranty.
